custom cource
Source - Language complier - IL code and meta data -----CLR  ---- IL code - JIT(Just In Time) complier - Native Code
								Metadata- Class loder - make a document on the metadata and creates a memory layout to run.
Metadata- detailed documentation about the source code.
namespace-functionally interdependent classes are grouped together.

Baseclass Library
system(root namespace)>>object(root class)
  its a repository of classes grouped in namespaces - name spaces are organized in a hirarchial order.
  it also contains native data types.

HOME work
the features of C# tech 


25)In TypeScript, what is the purpose of an interface?

How are stored procedures written in PostgreSQL?
What is CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) in the context of Web APIs?
What does the "var" keyword do in C#?
What is ASP.NET Core Web API
What is JSX in React?
How does TypeScript help in development compared to JavaScript?
What is JavaScript primarily used for?
How can you define optional properties in TypeScript interfaces
How does TypeScript handle transpilation and browser compatibility
What is a database trigger in PostgreSQL
How is data typically transferred between a client and a Web API

30 August

microsoft used Pascel casing

1 Class - 5 Fields - two methods

If no base class is mentioned then by default it is inherited by System base class.

protected - can be accessed in the class and child class
private - can be accessed only by the class
static constructor
Properties - special type of functions in c# that help you set value to your fields.
   syntax:- 
Indexes - indexes are hybride properties 
          indexes can be bound to more than one field of same type
  syntax - public <field type> this[int index]{---}
Q) can properties be written outside the calss

enum fixed varibles
instance- a live object
when class is abstract the methods can be overrided or not overrided but when a method is abstract the class should be abstract.

generics
  dictionary
    syntax -- Dictionary<datatype of key,datatype of value> ObjD=new Dictionary<datatype of key,datatype of value>();
    for loop syntax -- foreach(<value datatype> item in ObjD.values){
			}
31 aug
access modifiers
internal,private internal

transaction id
account no
amount

sql connection
sql command
sql data adapter
sql set

1st september 2023

1)exception
2)delegates
3)debugging

Exceptions 
  Errors are of three thypes
    1)compile time 2)runtime 3)logical
    runtime errors are basically exceptions
  Exception is the base class of all exception classes
  try,catch,final is used for exception handining - codded in console application
debugging
    Break point lines for testing - stop at lines during dubbing
    stepinto 
    stepover
structure
    structures can have methods.
    struct cannot be inherited from another struct.
    struct can inherit from base class and can implemt interface.
deligates
function pointers are variables that store address of other functions.
function pointers are called as Deligates in c#.
play a key role in event management.

    