Generic Foundation

SME-

elicitation-gathering or acquiring.

bank request processing-- atm sends request to bank server-- bank server contains code and process request.

requirement life cycle- requirement-design-coding-test-until clint accepts.

*requirements needed to develop a software application
	functional requirement 		- core functions.
	non functional requirements 	- to enance response time.
					  user load.
					  Hardware Compatibility.
					  OS Compatibility.

*Scrum---sprint
	sprint-duration of time given to complete a task.
		time management-we can keep track of time and work.

*epic and new story go hand in hand

*kanban board-visual information,

*estimation tecineque- converting into story points and estimating.

*devops-
github-source code base in the cloud
*piplines
build-Test-Deploy-monitor

21-August-2023

exercise
start grouping in excel sheet - epic, issues, task
For tasks		      - select how many story points
Derive sprint start and end date with priority

-sprint-1
-sprint-2
-sprint-3
-sprint-4

Tool 
Create Project
Add Wrok Items
Epic
Issue
Task
Create sprint with start and end date
add task items
moniter the scrum meeting by conducting daily scrum meetings
dash board update or review



start date and end date of feature

22nd august

SDLC - necessary - mature and robhoust work flow, restuls.

  PO(product owner) try to bring clints to company. intermedieate between clint and technical team.
 
    Negoatiation.	
    meet clint- requirement elicitation- document the things which are mutually agried upon... FORMS BRD(BUSINESS REQUIREMENT DOCUMENT)
    conflict  management.(in team)
    change management.(change in technology)
    risk management.(decision)(long run)
    product setup
    people management(leadership)
    time management
 
  Architect 

    gives information on technologies avalable to PO(skeleton).	      	

  Leagal Atornie
  
  ux/ui designer --- gives a blueprint to customer.
  developer 	 --- delivers a product prototype first.
---------------

Business Requirement Document
 
  Smart Requirement - smart, measurable, Attainable, Relevent, time bound
    time bound
  Requirement elicitation techinque - brain stroming, surveing, interview,

SDLC Modle agile - Scrum, Kanban
 
  Scrum
    BRD --- SRS(System requirement specification document) --- project kick of meeting --- sprint planing meeting

    SRS transfers business requirements technical requirements.
    Scrum team(scrum maseter+team members)
      9 members including scrum masters.
      PO is not a scrum team member.
      % 3 dev to 1 QA.
      % if more members are exceded then split the team

    Project vision -- epics -- user stories -- sprint planing meeting -- scrum stand out meeting -- sprint gooming meeting -- sprint demo meeting -- sprint retrospective meeting
    
    Scrum stand out meeting --- 15min
      every day

    sprint planing meeting 
      planning on deadlines.
      defination of ready
        accepted by all members that user stories are ready to be taken.

    story points
      1 story point

    sptint duration
      10 working days
      8 hours a day %

    sprint grooming(review) meeting  
      happens at the mid day of the sprint % 
      more details on the user stroy
    
    sprint demo meeting
      last day of the sprint
      1hr
    
    sprint retrospective meeting
      last day of sprint      
      1-1.5hr

23rd aug

SQL(Structured query language)
  used for RDBMS.
  tools 
    mysql
  platforms
    codelab
  data types
    premetive data type     - size is fixed.
    non premetive data type - size is variable
    varchar - maximum of 255 char including space.
    int.
  data defination language
    creating a record.
    alter the structure of table.
    drop
    trunket
  data manipulation language
    enter data and manipulate existing information of table.
      insert, into, values 
      update
      delete
  data query language
  keywords
    select, *, from
    select, *, from, where
    select, *, from, where, AND
    select, *, from, order by, ASC(ascending order)
    select, colomn_name, from - to print only the last name. 
  *always delete the previous code when executing. 
  
  Join
    inner
      select employee.lastname, employee.Age from employee inner join employee2 on employee.EmployeeId=employee2.EmployeeId
      select employee.lastname, employee.Age,employee2.EmployeeStatus from employee inner join employee2 on employee.EmployeeId=employee2.EmployeeId 
     
    left

    right
      select employee.lastname, employee2.EmployeeId,employee.Designation from employee2 right join employee on employee2.EmployeeId=employee.EmployeeId   
    
    self
    
    full outer join
      select employee.Age, employee.Designation, employee2.EmployeeStatus, employee2.EmployeeBand from employee full outer join employee2 on employee.EmployeeId=employee2.EmployeeId
    
  Sub-querying
    output of one query acts as input of the next query
  
no SQL
  used for non RDBMS.
  mongodb,casandra(CQL)

https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/codelab.php?topic=sql&file=select-all

TESTING
  Requirements should be clear.
  part of SDLC

  Software Testing life cycle

24th august 2023

Test Strategy Document - first document in testing stage

Initial work of a tester

  manual test cases development, positive test cases and negative test cases, ready testing environment -- testing bed

  Manual testing
  
  Test case -- document prepared while testing 
  
  Types of testing
    1)Functional Testing
        test the functionality.
    2)Non-Functional Testing
        testing logos, layout position etc.
   
  Software Testing Hierarchy
    Test or QA Environmnet
      developers deploy a replica of their module in TE and test them.
    
    Staging or Staged Environment
      stakeholders from client side test the system here.

    Production Environmnet 
      the producting comming out of acceptance testing is deployed in PE.
    
    Unit Testing 
      each module of the code is tested before entering it into the repositery.
    
    Integrated Testing
      modules are integrated to form integrated module forms a raw software this is tested.

    System Testing
      other softwares or API's are integrated with the raw software to make it into a system -- final product
      end to end functionality is tested.

    User Acceptance Testing or Green Box Testing or Acceptance Testing
      clint sends stake holders to test ty system and gives acceptance.
     
Different Testing Types
  1)Smoke
    Testing is done on selective testcases
    Testing is done on testcases which cover key functionalities
    functionality of 
  2)Regression
    End to end testing
    Regression Suit - contains all the test cases
    is done when application release, update releases, code modification
    ensures stability
    takes long time.
  3)Performance
  4)Ad Hoc
Bugs
  Intermitent issue - Bugs that occur only sometimes
  Bug life cycle
    Bug Report
      summary of the bug
      Description 
        Steps to reproduce the bug.
        in which environment and version of application you tested
        which data set you used to test the bug
        screed shot of the but/recording the screen while reproducing the bug
        name of the reporter
        testcase numbers which are blocked due to this bug
        seviority and priority of the bug
      Status of the bug is considered as NEW when you are reporting it
      when

CI/CD
  CI
    CI is contineous integration of code from local machine to the git repository
dml
  insert
    insert into employee (colomn_name)values('nayak'); - insert into only selective colomns
  delete
    delete from employee where EmployeeId='shubam'; - to delete a row
    delete from employee where EmployeeId=104;

  update
    update employee set Designation='ASE' where EmployeeId=101;
    update employee set Designation='ASE',city='NY' where EmployeeId=102;
    update employee set EmployeeId=104,Firstname='pratyush',Age=20,Designation='Boss',city='london' where lastname='nayak';

  alter

dql
  select count(Age) from employee - gives no.of coloumns which has age 
  select * from employee limit 2;
-----------

q) create a table with OrderId, customer name, order price, order location, customer city
   add 7 customers data into it
   write a query to fetch the data of the customer whose order price is more than 500
   write a query to fetch the data of the customer whose city is either mumbai or pune
   write a query to fetch the data of the customer whose name is mike
   write a query to fetch the data of the customer
   delete 3 customers from it

a)select * from dd where orderprice>500;
  select * from dd where customercity='Mumbai' or customercity='Pune';
  select * from dd where customername='mike';
  delete from dd where orderId=1;
  delete from dd where orderId=2;
  delete from dd where orderId=3;
--------

repositories - contains modules of code

25 august 

Cloud(Intro-Azure)
  
  cloud provides storage and platforms to store and access data
  
  Explore fundamentals of data
     
    structured data
      follows certain schema
    semi structured data
      follows certain schema but differ based on different contexts
    unstructured data
      no schema
      
    Storage of Data
      files
        Text
	  Javascript Object Notation(JSON)
  	  Extensible Markup Language(xml)
      Databases
        Relational
          data is stored in tabels and tables are inter related --- related using primary keys -- primary keys are keys 
        Non Relational
          Tables
          Graphs
         
    Transactional Datat Workloads
      Properties that should be achieved while data transaction
        Atomicity   - the transaction should be either success or failed
        Consistency - data should move from one valied state to other valied state.
        Isolation   - concurrent transactions cannot interfere with one other.
        Durability  - when data transaction is success, the data changes are persisted in the database.
    Analytical data workloads
      Extract, Transform and load(ETL) process copies data from files and OLTP databases into data warehouse -- ware house is optmised for 	                         	READ activity -- in data warehouse data is relational.
      from warehouse data is aggrigated and loaded into an online analytical processing(OLAP) model or Cube.
      data from datalake, datawarehouse and cube is queried to produce reports and dashboards.

      Descriptive
      Dyagnostics
      Prespective
  Cloud concepts
    Cloud Computing Architecture
  Cloud service types
    IaaS>>PaaS>>SaaS
    IaaS-servers and storage Networking firewalls/security and phisical servers
    PaaS-IaaS+development tools
  
  Azure Blob Storage
    blob - binary large object - files 
      1)Block Blobs
          large discrete blobs that change infrequently
      2)Page Blobs
          used as virtual disk storage for VMs
      3)Append Blobs
          optmize append operations
      Pre-Blob storage tiers
        Hot    - frequently used- lowest latency
        cool   -frequently used-higher latency
        Archive-rarely used -highest latency
    has flat Namespace
  
  Azure data lake store Gen 2
    has Hierarchical Namespace
  collection of different services is called resource group

  Azure Subscriptions
    provides authirozation to access azure services
  
  management groups
    management groups -- contains multiple subscriptions -- subscriptions contain access to multiple resource groups -- resource group is a set of resources
  
  Compute and Networking - Objective Domain
    
    Azure compute services
      Azre Virtual Machine
        easily scalable
        IaaS of azure
        VM scale sets
          provides load balance opportunity.
      

28. 8. 2023

shell_7_foundation_Java_Spring --- directory 

"deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs)stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list> /dev/null
    

What is the primary purpose of Continuous Integration (CI)

What is the purpose of mocking in unit testing
What is the main benefit of following TDD practices

What is the primary language used to define GitHub Actions workflows

What is GitHub Actions primarily used for

What is the sequence of steps in Test-Driven Development (TDD)
What triggers can initiate a GitHub Actions workflow
In the context of GitHub Actions, what is a "workflow"?

    

     
      

  

      
      
    
  
  



       
      
      
 
  
  